Nix related direnv information (develop) (#11385)
MinaProtocol/mina: nix/README.md

provided to the final Mina derivation. See [./ocaml.nix](./ocaml.nix)
for more details.

> ### Utility

Reviewer: I think this whole section should be moved up a bit, and renamed

```suggestion
# direnv
```

Author: @balsoft thank you, 
like put it under the `Use It` section and rename to `Dev experience`?

It is considered as a good practice to automatically enter the Nix shell instead of keeping in mind that you need to execute the `nix develop mina` command every time you enter the Mina repo directory.  
One way to do this is by using [`direnv`](https://direnv.net) + [`nix-direnv`](https://github.com/nix-community/nix-direnv)

#### How-To

- Install the `direnv` and add hook into your shell:
  - [Installation](https://direnv.net/docs/installation.html)
  - [Configuration](https://direnv.net/docs/hook.html)
- Reload your shell
- Configure the [`nix-direnv`](https://github.com/nix-community/nix-direnv)
  - The `Via home-manager (Recommended)` section
- Create the `.envrc` file under the Mina repo root path with the following content: `use nix` or `use flake mina`:
  ```
  cd mina
  touch .envrc && echo "use flake mina" >> .envrc
  ```
- Execute the following command within the Mina repo root path, in order to activate the `direnv` for current directory (it will read and apply previously created `.envrc` configuration file):
  ```
  direnv allow
  ```

* _Optional_: Reload your shell
* Now you will enter the Nix shell automatically should you `cd` into the Mina repo root path.  

>   To build the applications please use `Dune` directly, bypassing the `make`:
>   ```
>   MINA_COMMIT_SHA1=$(git rev-parse HEAD) DUNE_PROFILE="testnet_postake_medium_curves" dune build src/app/cli/src/mina.exe src/app/logproc/logproc.exe src/app/archive/archive.exe src/app/test_executive/test_executive.exe src/app/replayer/replayer.exe src/app/zkapp_test_transaction/zkapp_test_transaction.exe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build Mina, you can use all the same techniques as from within the `nix develop`. For example, try `dune build src/app/cli/src/mina.exe`, or `eval "$buildPhase"`
```

>   ```

Author: Nice catch, not sure how that happened.

#### Check if it worked

- You can check if `direnv` loaded the configuration for particular directory by invoking the `direnv status` command within subject directory.
- You can also check the `IN_NIX_SHELL` environment variable value:
  ```
  echo ${IN_NIX_SHELL}
  ```
  - Where an empty string means that the Nix shell was not entered.

> 

Author: Ah, true, it does, but as with my case, that output might be lost in scrollback history when one might want a way to get some tips regarding the env.

* In addition you might want to update your CLI prompt environment information to automatically inform you if you've entered the Nix shell.
  - [Example](https://gist.github.com/chisui/0d12bd51a5fd8e6bb52e6e6a43d31d5e)

>     - `prompt_nix_shell` method.

Reviewer: I think this should be its own section.

#### Configure global Git-ignore

The `.envrc` nor `.direnv/` are not added into the Mina repo `.gitignore` file, hence, you might want to ignore those entities globally.

```
touch ~/.gitignore

echo "### Direnv ###" >> ~/.gitignore
echo ".envrc" >> ~/.gitignore
echo ".direnv/" >> ~/.gitignore
echo "" >> ~/.gitignore
echo "### Nix ###" >> ~/.gitignore
echo ".shell.nix" >> ~/.gitignore

git config --global core.excludesfile ~/.gitignore
```

> 

Reviewer: It might make sense to add `.envrc` to Mina's gitignore. I only have it in my global gitignore because there are other projects whose upstreams are not using nix or direnv.

Author: What if we will need to add something user specific in `.envrc`, like in your case? Or it is not anticipated in future?

Reviewer: Then it's still going to be `gitignore`-d, just with a Mina-local gitignore. Note that I'm not proposing we add `.envrc` file itself to mina.

Author: Right, will do then
